Alright, right now when we check out
an input or credit card, we just get a token.
So now what we're gonna do right now
is we're gonna both charge that token on the server side
as well as we need to convert these cart items
into something called an order item.
As well as create a new type called a order,
which will contain all of the items
that were ordered in that order.
So that's gonna require some backend lifting
in our schema and in our data model.
So I'm in the backend here.
I'm gonna open up datamodel.graphql.
And we're gonna go down here
and make a new type called OrderItem.
And that order item is not gonna be just like CartItem,
because CartItem has a relationship to an actual item.
The problem with an OrderItem is that
we can't have a direct relationship to an item
because it's possible that item will get deleted
and then you'd be in the situation where
somebody has bought something,
but the item has been deleted.
Or even worse, if you had a relationship to an item,
the price could change,
but then we don't want to change their invoice
of how much they paid so we sort of need to cement
both all of the images, all of the descriptions.
Everything about the item needs to be cemented at the time
and we're gonna sort of take a copy of all the fields
of the item into an order item.
That way if the item ever were to change in the future,
the actual details of what the person bought
at that time will not change.
So we'll go to our order item here.
And the fields that we want are in id,
which is going to be a type of id that's required.
We're gonna be a @unique on that.
Need a title, just say string.
Need a description, image, a large image, a price,
which is an integer, quantity, just gonna be integer,
and we're gonna default that to a value of 1.
And then we're going to associate that
with the user in case any time that
we're querying order items we never need to populate it.
We're not gonna be specifically
using that in any of our queries,
but it is always helpful should you ever
do any sort of reporting or something like that
and you want to see who is the owner
and who is the user that bought this item.
Then we also want to make an order,
which is going to contain many order items,
so that, of course, has an id,
the type of id that's @unique.
We want to give it some items,
which is going to be an array of order items.
Both of those being required.
We're gonna have a total, which is an integer.
We're going to have a user, which is a user.
And then we're going to have a charge,
which is going to be a string.
And when the Stripe charge goes through
we're gonna get another id that
we put on the specific order.
Now anytime we edit our data model,
we need to go to our terminal here and run a deploy.
And it deployed everything.
Looks like we got our order item and our order
with all of our different fields
and all of our relationships that we have inside of that.
Good.
I'm gonna npm run dev again.
Then we're gonna open up our schema
and add the createOrder mutation.
That's going to take in a token.
That is a string and is required,
and it's going to return an order that is required.
Give that a save,
and of course, anytime that we create a mutation,
we also have to create a resolver for that mutation.
So let's head back to the bottom here.
Making a sync called createOrder,
parent, args, ctx and info.
So we need to do a whole bunch of stuff in here,
so let's write some pseudo-code first.
First we need to query the current user.
And make sure they are signed in.
Two, we need to recalculate the total for the price.
And this is really important because
I often see people do Stripe tutorials
and they take the price from the client side.
Meaning that if I were to check out and it says $14,000
and I can go ahead and check out with this,
there's a possibility,
and I have people do this to me all the time,
where you can just go into the JavaScript
and change the value of this to 1 cent.
And then they would send over the price
along with the token,
and then charge for the price on the server side.
But you don't want your users
to tell you how much to charge.
You should recalculate it.
And even though if the user were to trick,
I have this all time.
People try to change the price of my courses to one cent.
That's why we also say the price on the server side,
and they actually don't have to match up.
So if someone tries to trick it on the client side,
the true price will always be
recalculated on the server side.
It's not something you have to worry about.
So that's what we want to do.
Third, we want to create the Stripe charge.
Four, we're going to convert the CartItems to OrderItems.
'Cause remember,
we talked about why we're doing that earlier.
Five, we're going to create the order.
Six, we're going to clean up.
We're gonna clear the user's cart,
'cause once they've bought the items,
they shouldn't be in the cart anymore.
And then we also need to delete CartItems
just because we don't want those hanging around
in our database if they're not necessary.
And seven, return the order to the client.
So, woo, lots to go on here.
So let's kick it off now.
First thing we're gonna do is query the current user.
So say const userId is equal to ctx.request.
And then we'll say if there's no userId, throw error,
you must be signed in to complete this order.
Then we need to actually query the current user.
So I'll say const user is equal to await ctx.db.query.user.
Where.
The id of the user is equal to the userId.
And the query that we want is a
manual one that we're gonna pass.
And for that we want the id name and email of the user.
As well as their cart,
and then from each cart item inside of that,
we want the id and the quantity,
and then from each item inside of a cart item,
we wanna go a little bit further
and grab the title, the price, the id, the description,
and the image from each one.
So if you want you can also format this a little bit nicer.
And this should be wrapped in its own set of curly brackets.
There we go.
And if you like, you can format it a little bit nicer.
Doesn't auto-format it here for us,
so let's just do that right now
so you can see exactly what we're working with.
From each cart you want the id, the quantity, and the item.
And then from each item, you want those fields.
Beautiful.
Next what we wanna do is recalculate
the total for the price, so we'll do that now.
And say const amount is equal to user.cart.reduce,
and we've rewritten this a couple times.
Now, the reason why I'm not
reaching for that helper function
that we wrote is 'cause it's actually
in a separate code base
and sharing code between the two code bases
is not the easiest thing to do once we get into deployment,
so I'm just gonna write the little tally
and cartItem one once more.
For each one, we're going to return the tally,
plus the cartItem.item.price times cartItem.quantity.
Now start with 0 cents.
And let's stop there for a second
because I want to make sure this is all working
before we write the whole thing
and not even hook it up.
So let's just console.log,
going to charge for a total of $amount.
Now let's just flip back to our client side
and see if we can get this console log showing up.
It's not actually gonna work yet,
but let's just get the console log working.
So we're gonna flip back to our client side here.
We're gonna open up our TakeMyMoney,
and we're gonna write that mutation query.
So say const CREATE_ORDER_MUTATION is equal to gql.
Inside of that we'll make a mutation called createOrder.
That takes in a token with a type of a string.
From that we'll call the server side
createOrder mutation past the token,
and back from that we'll ask for the id,
the charge, the total,
the items that are inside of that with the id,
and the title.
Then in order to expose this to our Stripe checkout,
we're gonna need to put another mutation inside of here.
So we'll grab a mutation.
A mutation is going to be equal to CREATE_ORDER_MUTATION.
And once this has finished,
we just wanna refetch the query that is the current user.
Because once it's all done,
we want to refetch the user's cart
so that we show them that their cart is empty.
So we'll call refetch queries
That is always an array of queries.
And that's gonna be the current user query
that we'd like to refetch there.
Then inside of this mutation
you wanna give yourself an arrow function.
That arrow function is gonna
give us the createOrder mutation.
And then we'll pop this at
the other end of the Stripe checkout.
Now this is our mutation called createOrder.
The question is how do we get it up to this onToken?
Because we cannot call the createOrder
until we have this token right here.
So what we can do here,
and this is why we did a little arrow function here,
is we can pass the createOrder function
as a secondary argument to our onToken.
Then we can accept it inside of
our onToken along side a response.
And then we can manually call the mutation
once we have the Stripe token.
And that's what we'll do.
We'll just call it createOrder
and we'll pass the variables.
Token is going to be a res.id.
And then we'll just catch any errors that happen on there
and alert the err.message.
So if that works, what should happen is that
we'll fill out the credit card form, we'll get our token,
and then we'll call our mutation on the server side.
That will then query the current user,
tally up the cart and console log.
That's how far we should be right now.
Boom.
So that obviously worked.
Now let's go to our server side,
and this is what we got.
Going to charge for a total of,
see, that's the perfect amount.
That's the exact amount that we're displaying
on the client side since we recalculated it.
Don't worry about this error.
That's 'cause we haven't finished our resolver just yet.
But everything is in good shape.
Let's keep going with the mutation on the client side.
So you can leave that console log in here just for now.
Next we need to create a Stripe charge,
and that is gonna be turn token into money.
And in order for us to do that,
we also need to configure our Stripe locally.
So I always like to do this in a separate file
because then I can import the Stripe into any of my files
and not have to reconfigure it with that secret token.
So that's exactly what we're gonna do right now.
We're gonna go into our source folder,
and inside of there you'll see that we have a Stripe.js.
And all this does is it requires the Stripe node module,
which is the officially supported Stripe module from Stripe.
And then you run that,
and you configuring it by passing it your Stripe secret.
And then I export that.
So that's all in one line.
This how it'd look like if it was a little bit more verbose.
So say const Stripe is equal to require Stripe.
And then const config is equal to Stripe,
and then we would just call it with our actual token.
But in our case, we're putting it in process.env.
And then you export that config.
Module.exports is equal to config.
However, we can just do it in one little line here.
The only thing we need to do is
to head back to our Stripe backend.
Reveal your token, copy your secret key.
We're gonna open up variables.env.
And then paste it into there.
And I'll go back to our mutation and import that.
So const Stripe is equal to require Stripe.
And then this Stripe has all of the methods on side of it
for doing things like charging and pulling data
and making refunds and pulling receipts
and all of that good stuff that the Stripe module
will actually do for us, so let's go back to our
mutation that we've got here.
Say const charge is equal to await,
'cause the method that we're gonna use returns a promise,
so we can just await it.
Stripe.charges.create.
And then inside of the charge
we need to pass a couple different pieces of info it needs.
First the amount that we need to pass, which is the amount.
Again, we can just pass amount.
Second, the currency.
It's gonna be USD.
And the source is going to be the token
that we got from the client side,
and that is coming in from our args.token, right?
Because if you look at our schema,
the one thing that we're passing is the token
and that's gonna be serviced to us via our args.
So that's going to take that.
It's gonna go to Stripe and come back,
and that's what's actually going to finish this transaction.
Let's pause it there and see if this actually works.
This is a fairly big part for us.
So we're gonna go back here.
Gonna go to my cart.
Gonna checkout.
Looks like it worked.
We obviously are gonna get an error here.
Cannot return non-nullable field for Mutation.createOrder.
That's 'cause we haven't done this last little bit here,
return the order to the client.
That's totally fine.
But I think if we go to
our payments in our Stripe dashboard.
Woohoo!
We're rich!
Look at all this cash flowing in.
So obviously we've taken that token
and we've actually turned it into a charge
and then it shows up to us in the Stripe backend
and gives us all of the information
about how much was paid, what our fees are.
In my case, it converted it to Canadian
'cause I don't have it set up with a US bank account.
That is something you can do
if you do have Stripe setup.
And looks like everything worked really nicely.
Another thing you can do is
you can pass along a description at this point.
So if you did want to put an order id
or a quick explanation of what the charge was for,
you could put a description along with that.
You just look up the docs for Stripe.charges.create.
You can see all of the different
arguments that you can pass here.
So that is the actual charging of the credit card.
But we're still on the hook
for a whole bunch of other things on our end,
which is converting the CartItems to OrderItems,
converting it to an order, cleaning up,
and then returning the final data.
So that's what we'll pick up in the next video.
If you do want to try
and tackle these final things yourself,
I think it's fairly straightforward.
It's just a whole bunch of CRUD operations
that is inside of our ctx.db
all of the available Prisma things that we have.
If not, I'll see you in the next video.